[MUSIC]
>> Brian Holt: Now we're going to go
convert our app to be JSX instead of just
raw JavaScript.
Because now, it's being run through Babel.
Babel understands JSX and
it can output it.
>> Brian Holt: So,
let's talk about a little bit what JSX is.
First of all JSX is a big reason why
React did not catch on for
over a year after I got open source.
It was a good 18 months before I
picked it up and I I tried it once and
I was like this is gross.
I'm not touching it and
I left it and came back later.
It's like, okay I just had to throw
a bit of caution to the wind.
So JSX basically allows you to
write HTML in your JavaScript,
like that's the the gist of what JSX is.
And a lot of people look at that and say,
why in the hell would I ever want
to write HTML in JavaScript, right.
I'm in JavaScript.
I want it to be JavaScript.
I want my HTML to be HTML.
Furthermore, people point is,
we just got away like five or
six years ago of writing
JavaScript in our HTML.
Why would you want to flip that on its
head and write HTML in our JavaScript.
All valid complaints and
if you're feeling that way you
are certainly not the only person.
In fact, I would almost guarantee that
every person felt that way when they saw
JSX for the first time.
>> Brian Holt: The reason why it's really
great is, because if you look at what
we code we've written here in my title.
What is this doing?
This is really just mimicking what our
Ishmael eventually is going to look
like, right.
We're doing the same sort of nest
in the same sort of indentation.
We're ultimately just mimicking
what the way it looks.
So if we're just mimicking it,
wouldn't make sense to maybe just
do it in the first place, right.
Instead of having mimic in it,
we can literally just write
the HTML that we're looking for.
So, that's why I find it very valuable.
I'm actually writing the HTML
that I intend to see on the page.
>> Brian Holt: The other thing is,
that React kind of eschews the idea of a
traditional model view controller, right.
And Model View control works
amazing on a server, right.
Like for all of you that have written,
Django or rails or any one of those mvc's.
It's a really great idea on the server to
separate these concerns from into models,
used controllers.
That's a good separation of concerns for
the server and someone said,
well if it's good for
the server it must be good for the client.
And so, we brought that in,
like with Backbone and
earlier Angular and earlier Amber, right.
Like we've been writing these model view
controllers, as well in the client and
to me, it's a really leaky abstraction.
Like what what works for
interacting with databases is not
necessarily good for user interfaces.
User interfaces are an entirely
different beast in my opinion.
So what React has had to do
instead of trying to separate,
arbitrarily in my opinion.
These different concerns into a model,
a view and a controller.
What they decided to do is, they tried to
separate it into individual components.
And they take all the concerns,
that entire model view controller and
they just mash it into together
very small components.
So when you're looking at a component, you
see all of the concerns in one place now.
And in my opinion,
that makes a lot of sense,
because these components are now
entirely self-contained.
And if you have a bug in a component,
there's only one place it can be.
It's not in the model.
It's not in the view.
It's not the controller.
It's definitely inside of
this one component and
so, I think that's really powerful.
So, if I go to a web page and
I see there's something wrong
with my navigation bar, right?
Like the sign out button is broken or
something like that, I know precisely
what's broken about it, right.
Like I know it's broken
somewhere in this component and
that ability to just
visually debug a page.
Super, super powerful, right?
You now have limited, from the hundreds of
thousands of lines of code that you have.
You know it's in this
block of code somewhere,
it just has to be, right.
>> Brian Holt: I don't know if
anyone's here is coming
from an Angular background.
That's what I came from and if you have a
bug in Angular, it can be in the template.
It can be in the directive.
It can be in the directive that
transcluding in the other directive.
It can can be in the controller or
it can be in one of the many
services you're bringing in, right.
Just by looking at a component,
say there's a bug on that with
this particular component.
You still don't necessarily know
what's happening or where it is.
Now, that's not entirely true.
You can still have external bugs in React,
but if you write your React really well,
typically those just don't happen.
So all that to say, that I believe one,
that JSX is a good thing and
I believe that React uses it really well.
>> Brian Holt: Any
questions about that so far?
Like kind of the ideology behind JSX or
React?
Okay, so I almost guarantee anyone that
toughs through and writes a bit of JSX.
And gets through writing like a little
app that way, almost no one goes back.
[LAUGH] So if you just give it
a shot then, then it'll be good.
Much more so, I understand a lot
people don't like standard.
That they're going to do standard
today and then say, Brian's an idiot,
I'm no longer going to do it.
I'm totally cool with that, but
most people don't say JSX is a bad idea.
But that is to say, you can always
go back and write it this way.
And there are some smart people that I
know that have elected to do it this way.
I just choose not to.
Okay, so let's open my title.js and
let's go ahead and
rename it to my title.jsx.
>> Brian Holt: The reason that we do this,
it's not going to really change anything.
If you remember in our web pack thick,
we set it up to look for
JS files, so this would work either way.
The reason why I put the X on there is,
to let future Brian and
other developers touching this code.
Know that this file must be transpired or
it is not going to work.
This is not valid JavaScript and
anything that I put .js on,
I myself expect to be
strictly valid JavaScript.
And JSX is not valid JavaScript.
It's valid JSX, which has a path to
become valid JavaScript through Babble.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so here in render,
instead of doing this right here,
we're going to say div
instead of that okay.
And instead of H1 here going to say
H1
>> Brian Holt: Let's
actually put this on two lines,
becayse I think that'll be a bit clearer.
>> Brian Holt: And we're actually going to
move this into here.
>> Brian Holt: This actually
is not going to be an object.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
someone here said it feels dirty and
understandably so, right.
But it's pretty magical.
I think it's pretty cool.
Okay, so
we have to do a couple other things here.
So first of all,
if we'd say this.props.title, like this.
It's literally going to put
the string on there this.props.title
which is not what we want, right?
That's not the intention here, so
you need to surround it with curly braces.
Now, why are we putting
in curly braces here?
The reason we're putting curly braces
here is if you said the inside of my
curly braces I'm going to give
you a JavaScript expression.
I want you to evaluate that
JavaScript expression and
put whatever that returns into here.
So for example, if I have like,
you don't have to do this.
I'm just giving an example.
Const stupid FN or
something like that equals function.
Return stupid FN or
something like that right there.
So this is actually like
a real function and so,
if you're I can actually say stupid FN and
call the function.
So, anything that you can do with
a JavaScript script expression can be
put into there.
Or, we can even do this this dot
props title like to uppercase right?
That works too.
Anything that you could put on
the right side of a new assignment like
var x equals blank.
You can put in the here and that's okay.
Okay, so now we've learned that these
these curly braces mean expression or
a word also applies to attributes here.
So we actually have to surround this one,
as well with another set of curly
braces and it's kind of weird.
Let me explain why that is
the outside of a curly.
A set of curly braces means
JavaScript expression, right?
The inner set of curly braces means like
literally just like a normal JavaScript
object, right?
So if this feels better to you,
you can actually copy paste this and say,
style and then here,
say const style = that.
Does that splitting apart feel better for
you?
I don't know,
explain better what's going on there.
Some people get weirded out by
seeing two sets of curly braces and
they think it's a mustache or
something like that and it's not.
It's totally different.
It's literally an object
inside of this expression.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, any questions
about that?
You can get rid of this too.
>> Speaker 2: Can you do ask
name instead of sending
down the style from
props to just hardcode like a.
>> Brian Holt: Can
you do like CSS class names?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, absolutely.
And we'll do a lot of that
here in a little bit.
>> Speaker 3: You put a semicolon
there.
>> Brian Holt: Did I?
It's going to yell at me.
So, it is force of habit.
I'm still getting used to this.
The other thing is, don't try and
run standard right now.
It's going to barf on you.
[LAUGH] Actually, it should be okay.
It should be okay, but it's going to view
it's not going to lead to your react yet
and we have to configure that later.
>> Speaker 4: Why don't you put quotes
around the style attribute?
>> Brian Holt: Like inside of here or?
>> Speaker 4: Outside of the braces.
>> Brian Holt: So,
if you wanted to literally
put in the style, right.
You could actually do that and that's
actually, it might not work for style but
by putting the curly braces
to supplant the quotes right.
So if you're putting in curly braces,
you don't need the quotes and
that's just the way it is.
I don't know there's a good reason for it.
Well the reason for it is, once you're
inside quotes, this doesn't work.
Because it's actually going
to put literally the curly
braces in there, right.
So once it's a string, it says okay, I'm
not going to evaluate anything about this.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so any questions
about MyTitle,
what we did to it?
Okay.
>> Speaker 3: Asking why are you using
constant instead of R?
>> Brian Holt: I did mean to explain this,
that's a good idea.
We're in ES six wonderful play land now,
right.
So all these can actually
be are constant now.
The reason why use const and
this is up for debate.
So, this is a Brian Holt opinion.
This is not necessarily you must do this.
I use const everywhere and then,
I don't use var at all, anymore, period.
And the reason why I use const and
not necessarily let is,
because I default to const.
Because I'm letting my future self and
other devs know that I don't plan on
changing this right now or ever, right?
And then,the moment that I do need
something that I need to be able to
change, I'll say, let x, right.
And that's letting,
again future self/other people know,
that I have X and I plan on X is going
to mutate sometime down the line.
It's just footnotes for
whoever comes after me.
That make sense?
>> Brian Holt: Okay, cool.
I really like something that
Kyle Simpson says, that code is more for
future developers than it is for
a computer.
You're just annotating what you're
doing by the way that you write code.
And so, any future hints that
you can give to yourself,
like hey, I'm doing this and
I plan to do this.
And I'm setting these limitations
on myself is usually helpful.
And it's funny that I quote
Kyle to promote that idea,
because I know Kyle
doesn't really like const.
[LAUGH] I'm using his own
logic against him, though,
you probably should listen to him,
because he's ten times smarter than I am.
>> Brian Holt: Actually,
empirically speaking, I believe he's
literally ten times smarter than I am.